Feedback on my Synthetic Relativity talk:
----------------------------------------

This relativistic approach might resolve the problem with progression in the situation calculus.

Progression is what is done in (propositional) planning, which is not a problem in A* search, but when you move to first order logic it is a problem.

At present, people use two different mechanisms: situation calculus (for regression) and the \mu calculus (for verification/model checking) but not the same formalism - this puts reasoning like self-transcending reasoning, and partial order reasoning out of reach.

Want to forget about the past, but you can't in progression in sit calc.

Recall Stavros' work: showed you have to replace with existential quantifiers the past.

Giuseppe recalls having a discussion with the late Ray Rieter about the ider of having a reference frame, which means you can not worry about the past, as you have this reference.

It allows you to only need to reason about the future, is the huge benefit.

So this is relativistic progression - and could be in fact an integration of autonomous theory progression and (situation calculus) progression.

This relativistic approach could help this.

Giuseppe asked if it could be used beyond just towers of Hanoi.

Questions:

Algebraic compactness: Giuseppe pointed out that they might not meet (greatest and least fixpoints), I acknowledged (at least for property persistence) that it is sound but not complete, but what is the actual situation? 

What are the benefits of beinf first order in representation over propositional (in order to e.g. wanting to be able to do progression?

Can the (Stavros Vassos) view of progression extend to autonomous theory progression (i.e. the relativistic version of it) and how are these two modalities related?


Future work: a lot is there, what is the promise of proving the invariance conjecture?

Insights from chats:

Perhaps S_f captures what is required for (normal) progression...this is the big idea.

Two kinds of incompleteness on BAT slide - epistemic and ontological completeness


Strategic reasoning (Giuseppe's new project):
--------------------------------------------

Strategies could come from LLMs, humans, etc.

Looking at strategic space, and make sure you are following at least one of the strategies in the strategic space.



